- [Instructor] Now that we have looked at
the JSP Standard actions and the expression language,
let's look at the bigger piece that we have
which is JavaServer Pages Tag Library.
So as the name suggest, it's a library of tags
and it's a huge bundle of tags that can accomplish
the core functionalities of your
web application for your JSP pages.
So as we said earlier, that the JavaServer Pages
are going to be helping us to display data,
to help us to sort and evaluations on the fly.
So all of that is possible with
expression language, of course,
and now there's a bigger bundle of tags that we have,
which is JSTL.
Now this entire set of tags comes bundled up
or encapsulated in a Java archive.
It's a .jar file which is outside the servlet-api.jar
so it has to be externally downloaded
and then you have to add it to the bill part of our project.
And, in one of our previous videos
we are actually talked about directives.
We had talked about the page directive,
the include directive,
and we said that the taglib directive can only be seen
when we come to JavaServer Pages Tag Library.
So now that we are here,
we can now look at that taglib directive
being used on the JSP page for JSTL.
Right, so what are the jobs that this JSTL can do for you?
it can do a lot of stuff.
Let's see what it is.
It can do your display of data.
So, basically navigating through all your Java objects,
through your server site.
It can even do iterations
and put on conditional statements in the code.
If you were to write a conditional statement
with the scriptlet, you would picture in your mind
how it would look like.
If you wanted a for loop or a while loop for that matter,
it's an iteration that you would have to write again
with the scriptlet.
But when it comes to JSTL, it has ready made tags
which will help you with these iterations
and conditional statements.
Now all of this, the display of data,
the basic iteration, conditional statements, et cetera
form the core module of JSTL.
That's the first one.
What else can it do for you?
It can format values.
Let's say I want to go ahead and format the currency
in a particular currency format.
Or maybe let's say I want to format
the date in a particular format.
I can do that with the help of a tag,
just a simple tag on my JSP page.
So, I really don't need to go ahead and manipulate
the date object on my server side
and then get it to my JSP.
Instead, I can just get the date object as is
and format to any format using the JSTL's FMT module.
Moreover, it can also do localization
and internationalization.
Localization is a process of localizing all your labels
and information or error messages
that you display on JSP to a central file.
You do not want to go ahead and hard code all these messages
and labels in all your JSP pages.
Instead, you can store them at a central place
so that even if they have a change tomorrow,
you just have to change at one place
and they will get reflected in all the other.
Right, internationalization on the other hand
is a concept where you make your application available
in various locales.
So, locale is a language.
So let's say I want to build the H plus port application
for German, for French, so I can do that
using the internationalization concept.
The third module of JSTL is the XML module,
so if you have any kind of requirement
where you want to parse or manipulate
an XML document on a JSP page
then you can do that with the help of XML module.
And then lastly we have the SQL module
which is going to help you query
or do any kind of transaction with SQL
right there on your JSP page.
But, as we said, the Java server pages
are solely used for the purpose of display
so they should not be really involved
in any kind of business logic or database interaction
and that's exactly why this SQL module
is not really used in JSPs today.
Yeah, so let's quickly look at the Syntax now.
If you're talking with the Core Module,
we are going to have the syntax
with the zen angle bracket.
And then this keyword called c,
then a colon followed by the name of the tag.
So the c is basically the prefix
identifying that module
and what follows is a tag
that you have picked up from that module.
So, similar to that, you have the XML module
which will help you to pick up a tag
from the XML module of JSTL.
And then you have the SQL module.
The prefix for that is sql followed by the name of the tag.
And then we have the FMT module, formatting module
which is going to go ahead and have the prefix of fmt
followed by the name of the tag.
Now, if you want to use these four modules
on your JSP pages,
you will have to include them independently,
each one of them separately.
And this declaration, or this inclusion
that we are talking about
will take place with the help of the taglib directive.
So we will look at that anyway as a part of our demo,
but this is just to make sure that you know it beforehand.
And yes, JSTL is completely aligned
to the Unified Expression Language,
so in one of the previous videos we had taken a look
at Unified Expression Language
which is a combination of the expression languages
used by Java server faces and Java server pages.
Right, so that's a mix, and that's exactly JSP 2.1.
And this JSTL library that we are talking about
is aligned to this Unified Expression Language
which is why you can actually use this Core module
in Java server faces components or pages as well.